README.md, before:

# Tuna Brain

Tuna Brain is a FastAPI service that wraps upstream LLMs with LangChain to support
Tunarr Scheduler. It will help tag media, map media to channels, craft schedules, and
produce bumpers for upcoming programming blocks.

## Project layout

- `src/tunabrain/app.py`: FastAPI application factory and router wiring.
- `src/tunabrain/api/models.py`: Pydantic models for request/response payloads.
- `src/tunabrain/api/routes.py`: HTTP endpoints for tagging, channel mapping, scheduling, and bumpers.
- `src/tunabrain/chains/`: LangChain-powered workflow stubs, ready to be implemented.
- `src/tunabrain/tools/`: LangChain-compatible tools (e.g., Wikipedia lookup) available to
  chains.
- `flake.nix`: Nix flake for a reproducible development shell with Python dependencies.
- `pyproject.toml`: Project metadata and Python dependencies.

## Development

### Using Nix

```bash
nix develop
```

This provides a Python 3.11 environment with FastAPI, Uvicorn, Pydantic, and LangChain.

### Running the API

```bash
python -m tunabrain
```

The service will start on port 8000. The `/health` endpoint can be used to verify
startup.

### Configuring the LLM backend

TunaBrain reads environment variables to decide which chat model to use:

- `TUNABRAIN_LLM_PROVIDER`: LangChain provider name (default: `openai`).
- `TUNABRAIN_LLM_MODEL`: Model identifier to load (default: `gpt-4o-mini`).

When using OpenAI, provide an API key via `OPENAI_API_KEY` (or rely on your shell's
existing `OPENAI_API_KEY` export). For example:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
export TUNABRAIN_LLM_MODEL=gpt-4o-mini
python -m tunabrain
```

Every chain that invokes an LLM will pick up these settings automatically.

### Endpoints

- `POST /tags`: Generate scheduling-oriented tags for a media item.
- `POST /channel-mapping`: Associate a media item with matching channels.
- `POST /schedule`: Build a schedule for a channel using provided media and instructions.
- `POST /bumpers`: Produce bumpers tailored to a schedule.

Each endpoint currently delegates to LangChain workflow stubs that raise
`NotImplementedError`, ready for future implementation.

Commit message:

Add environment flag for debug logging

README.md, after:

# Tuna Brain

Tuna Brain is a FastAPI service that wraps upstream LLMs with LangChain to support
Tunarr Scheduler. It will help tag media, map media to channels, craft schedules, and
produce bumpers for upcoming programming blocks.

## Project layout

- `src/tunabrain/app.py`: FastAPI application factory and router wiring.
- `src/tunabrain/api/models.py`: Pydantic models for request/response payloads.
- `src/tunabrain/api/routes.py`: HTTP endpoints for tagging, channel mapping, scheduling, and bumpers.
- `src/tunabrain/chains/`: LangChain-powered workflow stubs, ready to be implemented.
- `src/tunabrain/tools/`: LangChain-compatible tools (e.g., Wikipedia lookup) available to
  chains.
- `flake.nix`: Nix flake for a reproducible development shell with Python dependencies.
- `pyproject.toml`: Project metadata and Python dependencies.

## Development

### Using Nix

```bash
nix develop
```

This provides a Python 3.11 environment with FastAPI, Uvicorn, Pydantic, and LangChain.

### Running the API

```bash
python -m tunabrain
```

The service will start on port 8000. The `/health` endpoint can be used to verify
startup.

### Configuring the LLM backend

TunaBrain reads environment variables to decide which chat model to use:

- `TUNABRAIN_LLM_PROVIDER`: LangChain provider name (default: `openai`).
- `TUNABRAIN_LLM_MODEL`: Model identifier to load (default: `gpt-4o-mini`).
- `TUNABRAIN_DEBUG`: Set to `1`, `true`, or `yes` to force debug logging for LLM
  prompts and downstream HTTP requests, even before a request payload can be
  parsed.

When using OpenAI, provide an API key via `OPENAI_API_KEY` (or rely on your shell's
existing `OPENAI_API_KEY` export). For example:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
export TUNABRAIN_LLM_MODEL=gpt-4o-mini
python -m tunabrain
```

Every chain that invokes an LLM will pick up these settings automatically.

### Endpoints

- `POST /tags`: Generate scheduling-oriented tags for a media item.
- `POST /channel-mapping`: Associate a media item with matching channels.
- `POST /schedule`: Build a schedule for a channel using provided media and instructions.
- `POST /bumpers`: Produce bumpers tailored to a schedule.

Each endpoint currently delegates to LangChain workflow stubs that raise
`NotImplementedError`, ready for future implementation.
